REVIEW: HINDI MEDIUM (4.5/5.0 STARS) 

The Irrfan Khan starrer Hindi medium is a nice satire on Indian Schools and their stubborn attitude towards glorifying the "English" language. 

The film introduces us to Raj Batra (Irrfan Khan) who runs a successful business selling bridal wears in downtown Delhi. Although he is rich, but is neither highly educated nor is fluent in English language or "Heigh Class Societal Ways". His wife Mita (Saba Qamar) has always held an inferiority complex towards the supposed "High Class Society" and wishes to have their daughter to break free from the shackles of "Hindi-Medium" by going to one of the top 5 schools in Delhi. But later the couple realizes that not only the children but their parents also needed to be interviewed!! And this is where the fun starts! 
  
Saket Chaudhary successfully portrays the "horrifying and brutal" can the school selection processes be. Irrfan and Saba very beautifully bring forth the image of how a non-English speaking couple had to toil and cram all the "answers" to the "common" questions asked in interviews. This part of the film makes you both laugh and reminisce about your own experiences. 
  
Later, when raj gets entrapped in a scandal by wrongly trying to get his daughter enrolled in school using the RTE, the family needs to movie in the slums to successfully portray their "poor image" to the school authorities. There comes the entry of Deepak Dobriyal (as Shyamprakash Kori) who adds a new flavour to the film. We get to experience a myriad of emotions as Shyamprakash tries to help his new neighbors adjust to this new environment. 
  
Saket Chaudhary has very beauitfully showed us how the idea of "India is English and English is India" is engraved in the minds of Indian Educationists. The film proves the it doesn't matter if a child is from a low class or a high-class background, as long as he is provided the opportunities, he WILL grab onto them and soar into the skies. Rather than the medium, but the education itself is the most important. All in all, I would suggest to all the people reading this review, "DON'T WASTE TIME AND BUY THE TICKET IN YOUR NEARSEST CINEMA HALL!!". 
